Healthy Sleep, Happy life!

Having trouble sleeping can be a very common issue among adults. There are many factors that can lead to a lack of sleep, including stress and anxiety. As you are working and go about your daily life, stress and anxiety can build up in your life causing a lack of sleep. This can put a tremendous strain on the body. There are many ways to help someone who is suffering from a lack of sleep including many sleep aids as well as natural remedies. You want to make sure you are getting the proper amount of sleep every night, doctors recommend around 8 hours every night. This allows your body to have a proper sleep cycle so that your body remains healthy and functioning properly. When you do not get the right amount of sleep there can be some serious health effects. 
Some of these include: 
- Mood swings - Grogginess - Lack of focus - High blood pressure - Risk of diabetes - Threat to cardiovascular health - Increased obesity - Aging skin - Increased risk of stroke There are a lot of things that can result from a lack of sleep which is why it is very important for everyone to maintain a good night sleep. There are a lot of things that can cause people to have insomnia. Anxiety and depression are among the top things that cause people to not get proper sleep. Almost 90% of people with depression have reported a lack of sleep at night. If you are experiencing anxiety and depression it is imperative that you see your doctor right away. Without treatment of these problems the lack of sleep will persist and end up causing major health problems for you. It is important to take care of yourself and if you are having trouble sleeping figure out the problem and remedy it. Trying to relax and meditate before bed is a great way to soothe yourself in order to get a good night's sleep. Calming your mind is the first step toward sleeping. A restless mind will remain awake and cause you to toss and turn throughout the night. This will not benefit anyone and end up causing health problems for yourself. Try taking a few deep breaths before bed as well as keeping your mind focused on something simple. This can be counting sheep or anything that you can doze off to. This is a great way to get your mind off of the things that may be bothering you or making you anxious. There can be a lot of stress involved in everyday life and forgetting those worries is the first step in getting a good night's sleep. 

If you can not figure out a way to get to sleep naturally there are a good amount of natural sleep aids that can help you get that good night sleep your desire. Don’t worry these are not prescription drugs that may have some adverse effects, they are natural remedies that can help you to fall soundly asleep. The first sleep aid is melatonin. Melatonin is produced by your body naturally to help you sleep. Taking this will help your body fall asleep naturally and make sure you get a good night's sleep. I take it regularly and it works like a charm. The next sleep aid is called valerian root. Valerian root is an herb native to Asia and Europe and it treats symptoms of 
anxiety, depression and menopause. It is a great natural aid to take that will calm the body before sleep. Another great thing to take is magnesium. Magnesium is a mineral involved in hundreds of processes in the body. Magnesium will help quiet and calm the body. This in turn will make it much easier for you to sleep. The next sleep aid is lavender. Lavender can be found in a number of products as well as just having the actual flower itself. Smelling lavender 30 minutes before bed has been know to help people sleep. The soothing fragrance of lavender helps our bodies to sleep be calm and get a great night's sleep. 

Some other great natural sleep aids are: 
- Passion flower - Glycine - Tryptophan - Ginkgo Bilbao - L-theanine These are some great natural products that can help aid in the sleeping process. It is a great idea to utilize natural sleep aids to help in the sleeping process so that your body can get a proper night’s sleep. Without a proper night’s your body can have some very serious negative side effects. To find some of these amazing natural sleep aids you can visit: www.herbspro.com 

Amber Whipple
